---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/reference/spheres-of-power/spheres/warp/extradimensional-room-space/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---

You may create a small pocket dimension, accessible through a shimmering portal that either appears in the air before you or on a touched, reasonably flat surface. This pocket dimension measures one 10-foot cube per caster level, arranged as you wish so long as the space is continuous. You can make the entrance as small as 5-foot square or as large as 10-foot square. You can select its light level and temperature (from -40째 F to 120째 F, -40째 C to 50째 C), but otherwise it is a featureless location.

This space does not exist until you enter the portal, and continues to exists as long as you are inside. However, you may spend a spell point to create the space without entering, and allow it to remain for up to 1 round per caster level regardless of whether or not you are inside it. If the portal is placed on the ground or in some other way an unwilling creature might fall in, the creature is allowed a Reflex save to evade. Climbing the walls of this room requires a DC 20 Climb check. When this ability expires or is dispelled, all objects and creatures within this space are harmlessly ejected through the portal.

You may take this talent two times; when taken a second time you gain greater control over your room. As long as you concentrate, the room remains even if you are not inside it.

You do not need to continue concentrating while inside the room, but must begin concentrating again if you exit for the room to remain. In addition, as a standard action or as part of concentration, you can bar the portal and prevent anything from crossing it. Anyone inside can reopen the door as a standard action, while anyone outside can force the portal open with a Strength check or slip through with an Escape Artist check (with the DC being equal to 10 + 1/2 caster level + casting ability modifier). While barred, the portal can still be seen and the room dispelled from the outside. Lastly, if you also possess the Extradimensional Storage talent, you may withdraw any number of items from your Extradimensional Storage and place them on any stable surface in the room when it is created.

When the room expires or is dispelled, you may have any unattended items inside of it be placed directly into the space of your Extradimensional Storage talent rather than ejected so long as they do not exceed its weight limit.